.. _faq:

Frequently asked questions
**************************

Why is it called pdfminer.six?
==============================

Pdfminer.six is a fork of the `original pdfminer created by Euske
<https://github.com/euske>`_. Almost all of the code and architecture is in
fact created by Euske. But, for a long time this original pdfminer did not
support Python 3. Until 2020 the original pdfminer only supported Python 2.
The original goal of pdfminer.six was to add support for Python 3. This was
done with the six package. The six package helps to write code that is
compatible with both Python 2 and Python 3. Hence, pdfminer.six.

As of 2020, pdfminer.six dropped the support for Python 2 because it was
`end-of-life <https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/>`_. While the .six
part is no longer applicable, we kept the name to prevent breaking changes for
existing users.

The current punchline "We fathom PDF" is a `whimsical reference
<https://github.com/pdfminer/pdfminer.six/issues/197#issuecomment-655091942>`_
to the six. Fathom means both deeply understanding something, and a fathom is
also equal to six feet.

How does pdfminer.six compare to other forks of pdfminer?
==========================================================

Pdfminer.six is now an independent and community maintained package for
extracting text from PDF's with Python. We actively fix bugs (also for PDF's
that don't strictly follow the PDF Reference), add new features and improve
the usability of pdfminer.six. This community separates pdfminer.six from the
other forks of the original pdfminer. PDF as a format is very diverse and
there are countless deviations from the official format. The only way to
support all the PDF's out there is to have a community that actively uses and
improves pdfminer.

Since 2020, the original pdfminer is `dormant
<https://github.com/euske/pdfminer#pdfminer>`_, and pdfminer.six is the fork
which Euske recommends if you need an actively maintained version of pdfminer.

Unable to extract special characters from PDF
=============================================

a.k.a 

"Why does pdfminer.six not extract special characters from PDFs?"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

or

"Getting weird characters (cid\:20) instead of special characters"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Pdfminer.six is a tool for extracting text from PDFs. It is not a tool for
extracting the original PDF content. The PDF format is very complex, and it 
is impossible to extract the original PDF content with 100% accuracy.

One of the most commonly encountered issues is that **the PDF does not contain
a mapping for its glyphs** (i.e. the characters displayed on the screen). 
It is a common issue with PDFs that are generated by scanning
documents. In this case, pdfminer.six will extract the **CID** (character
identifier) instead of the actual character. The CID is a number that
represents a character. The CID is not a character itself. The CID is a 
reference to a character that is defined in the PDF's font. The PDF's font
is a mapping between the CID and the actual character.

One of the easiest ways to understand it is to think of the CID as a
reference to a character in a dictionary. The dictionary is the PDF's font.
The CID is the key in the dictionary. The actual character is the value in
the dictionary.

A quick way to check if the PDF contains a mapping for its glyphs is to
open the PDF in a text editor. If the text is displayed correctly, then the
PDF contains a mapping for its glyphs. If the text is displayed as CID
numbers, then the PDF does not contain a mapping for its glyphs.

If you copy-paste from the PDF directly, you will get gibberish. 
Pdfminer.six is doing the same thing, but automated, and gets the same result
(=gibberish).

References: 

#. `Chapter 5: Text, PDF Reference 1.7 <https://opensource.adobe.com/dc-acrobat-sdk-docs/pdflsdk/index.html#pdf-reference>`_
#. `Text: PDF, Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDF#Text>`_
